I think it's easy to see just how big a
deal this is that in a way you had a
species that for hundreds of thousands
of years had developed this
extraordinary ability to have a mental
life but it was effectively running
around in random directions not making
real progress because there was no way
of saying this is actually the way
forward and what you're describing is
what science did was it said it found a
way of gradually cutting out the
negative signals where where someone was
running into a brick wall or running
backwards and saying no no cut that out
move and and so that that creates this
process whereby we gradually start to
get closer to an understanding of quote
reality unquote I mean even without the
quotes even without the questions it
really is an understanding there really
is a reality out there and and it
matters that we slowly start to model it
in some ways in in our minds now Eric
correction is an extremely simple
concept although very profound I mean
absolutely everything depends on it
since everything depends on knowledge
and knowledge doesn't come to us on a
silver platter so everything depends on
error correction but although that's a
simple fact
arranging for that to happen is not at
all simple it's incredibly sophisticated
we do not understand it so we don't
understand it either on the level of how
creativity works
in a single human mind
and we also don't understand
what it takes in a culture for the
culture to support error correction
because it's almost paradoxical what we
want is a system for correcting
traditional knowledge but tradition by
definition is something that stays the
same over generations and so Karl Popper
coined the phrase a tradition of
criticism
this is an extremely unusual form of
tradition
it's happened very rarely in human
history and the one we call the
Scientific Revolution is the is the
ancestor of everything good we have
today
but we don't know what it takes
for a culture to have a tradition of
criticism in it now we are very lucky
and we take for granted that we have
things like the scientific Community the
scientific tradition we we take for
granted that if a professor is asked a
question in a seminar and says you're
not allowed to ask that just trust me
I'm the professor he will be laughed at
although there are many areas of life
where he wouldn't be laughed at but
science is one
where it's taken for granted that
criticism is part of the culture it's
part of the tradition that's passed on